# Noir React Native starter

## Description

This is a simple React Native app showcasing how to use Noir in a mobile app (both for iOS and Android) to generate and verify proofs directly on mobile phones.

## Mobile proving

### iOS

The app integrates with the [Swoir library](https://github.com/Swoir/Swoir) to generate proofs with Noir on iOS. The library is written in Swift and is available as a Swift Package.

### Android

The app integrates with [noir_android](https://github.com/madztheo/noir_android), to generate proofs with Noir on Android. This library is written in Kotlin and Java and is loaded in the app with Jitpack in `android/app/build.gradle`.

## General setup

If you are unfamiliar with React Native, you can follow the [official guide](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup) to set up your environment.

For the rest follow the steps below:

1. Clone the repository
2. Run `npm install` to install the dependencies
3. [Optional] You can download the SRS to package it with the app binary and avoid fetching it from the server every time you generate a proof. Please refer to the section below on SRS download strategies.

## Setup on iOS

1. Run `npx pod-install` to install the pods for the iOS project
2. Open the project in Xcode
3. Make sure you see the `Swoir`, `SwoirCore` and `Swoirenberg` libraries in the `Package Dependencies` (if not please open an issue)
4. Make sure you have a valid provisioning profile set up for the app in `Signing & Capabilities`
5. Build & Run the app on your device

## Setup on Android

1. Connect your Android device and check it is connected by running `npm run android-devices`. It should display the connected device as `device` in the list of devices attached.
2. Run `npm run android` to build and run the app on your device

**Note**: If you want to do a clean build, you can run `./scripts/clean-android.sh` before running `npm run android`

## SRS download strategies

The Structured Reference String (or SRS) contains the necessary data from the Universal Trusted Setup of Aztec to generate proofs with Noir (or more precisely the Barretenberg backend). So you will need it in the app. Here's how to go about it:

### You have 5 minutes and already know the circuits you want to use

Then you should pre-download the SRS and package it with the app binary. You can do so by running the script `./scripts/download-srs.sh` that will help you do that in a single command. First, you will need to identify which of your circuits has the highest gate count, that is which one of them returns the biggest `Backend Circuit Size` when running `nargo info`. Once you have identified that said circuit, run the following command:

```bash
./scripts/download-srs.sh path/to/your/circuit/target/<your_circuit_name>.json
```

This will download the SRS and package it into the app binary, and you'll be ready to go!

**Why do I need to know the circuit with the highest gate count?**
The SRS is the same for all circuits, so you only need to download it once. But you only need a fraction of it according to the size of the circuit you are using. So instead of downloading the whole SRS, which is over 300MB, you can download the chunk of the SRS that is needed to prove the biggest circuit you plan to use. This way you will have a much smaller SRS file to store (likely less than 50MB).

**Note**: You can still download the SRS without specifying a circuit, just run `./scripts/download-srs.sh` without any argument. This will download the fraction of the SRS needed for a circuit of up to 512k constraints, which should be enough in most cases.

### You don't know which circuits you will use for now and just want to try things out

Then you can skip the process described above and the app will revert to fetching the SRS from Aztec's server. This is the default strategy used in the app. This approach will slow down the proof generation process, especially if you have a slow network connection. Also it is not recommended for production as you should not expect users to have a fast connection at all times and this may severely impact their data plan without them realizing it.

## Usage

### Setup the circuit

Import your compiled circuit, the json file generated by `nargo compile`, as a regular json file in TypeScript on whichever page you want to use it.

```typescript
import circuit from './path/to/your/circuit/target/<your_circuit_name>.json';
```

Then before generating your first proof with it, make sure to setup the circuit by calling the `setupCircuit` function passing it the imported compiled circuit.

```typescript
import {Circuit} from '../types';
import {setupCircuit} from '../lib/noir';

const circuitId: string = await setupCircuit(circuit as Circuit);
```

It will return the `circuitId` (essentially the hash of the circuit), that identifies the circuit and which you will need to pass to the `generateProof` and `verifyProof` functions. You can keep it in a state variable or the context to use it later.

When you are done with the circuit, you can discard it by calling the `clearCircuit` function passing it the `circuitId`.

```typescript
import {clearCircuit} from '../lib/noir';

await clearCircuit(circuitId);
```

### Proving

To generate a proof, call the `generateProof` function passing it the `circuitId`, the inputs and the type of proof you want to generate. Most type of inputs are supported such as integer, field, arrays and struct. The function will return the proof with the public inputs and the verification key of the circuit (needed for verification).

```typescript
import {generateProof} from '../lib/noir';

// For UltraPlonk proofs
const {proofWithPublicInputs, vkey} = await generateProof(
  {
    a: 5,
    b: 7,
    result: 35,
  },
  circuitId,
  'plonk',
);

// For Honk proofs
const {proofWithPublicInputs, vkey} = await generateProof(
  {
    a: 5,
    b: 7,
    result: 35,
  },
  circuitId,
  'honk',
);
```

### Remove the public inputs from the proof

If you want only the proof, stripped of its public inputs, you can call the `extractProof` function passing it the proof with public inputs and the circuit. It will return just the proof (may not work as expected with Honk for now).

```typescript
import circuit from './path/to/your/circuit/target/<your_circuit_name>.json';
import {Circuit} from '../types';
import {extractProof} from '../lib/noir';

const proof = extractProof(circuit as Circuit, proofWithPublicInputs);
```

### Verifying

To verify a proof, call the `verifyProof` function passing it the `circuitId`, the proof, the verification key and the proof type. It will return a boolean indicating if the proof is valid or not.

```typescript
import {verifyProof} from '../lib/noir';

// For UltraPlonk proofs
const isValid = await verifyProof(
  proofWithPublicInputs,
  vkey,
  circuitId,
  'plonk',
);

// For Honk proofs
const isValid = await verifyProof(
  proofWithPublicInputs,
  vkey,
  circuitId,
  'honk',
);
```

**Note**: You can look at the different pages in the `pages` folder to see how it is used in the app more concretely.

## How to replace the circuit

This app comes with a basic Noir circuit checking that the prover knows two private inputs `a` and `b` such that the public input `result` is equal to their product `a * b`, a circuit verifying a secp256r1 signature and one doing multiple rounds of pedersen hashing. You can replace any of these circuits with your own by following these steps:

1. Go into the `circuits` folder
2. Create a new folder for your circuit such as `my_circuit`
3. Create a `Nargo.toml` file in this folder following the structure of the `Nargo.toml` file in the other subfolders of the `circuits` folder. Don't forget to change the name of the circuit in the `name` field
4. Create a `src` folder and create a `main.nr` file in it
5. Make sure you have the version 0.30.0 of `nargo`. You can check by running `nargo --version`. If you have a different version, you can use `noirup -v 0.30.0`. And if you don't have `noirup` follow the instructions [here](https://noir-lang.org/docs/getting_started/installation/).
6. Write your Noir code in `main.nr` and run `nargo check` to generate the `Prover.toml` and `Verifier.toml` files
7. Run `nargo compile` to compile the circuit
8. It will generate a new `<your_circuit_name>.json` file in `/target`
9. You can then replace the import in the Javascript code to load this circuit instead

## Note on performance

Bear in mind that mobile phones have a limited amount of available RAM. The circuit used in this app is really simple so the memory usage is not a problem. However, if you plan to use more complex circuits, you should be aware that the memory usage will increase and may go above the available memory on the device causing the proof generation to fail.

## A note on Honk

While still a work of progress, Honk APIs are already exposed in Barretenberg and this app gives the ability to tap into it. You can switch between Honk and UltraPlonk (current proofs used by Noir) by specifying the `proofType` of the prove and verify functions. Specify `honk` to use Honk and `plonk` to use UltraPlonk. If not specified, the default is UltraPlonk.

You will notice Honk is substantially faster than UltraPlonk, and uses less memory than UltraPlonk. However, it is still in development and there is no fully working on-chain verifier for it at the moment.

## Latest supported version of Noir

The latest supported version of Noir is 0.32.0
